EQUAL CREDIT OPPORTUNITY ACT (ECOA) — REGULATION B, 12 CFR PART 1002

§1002.2 Definitions.
(c) Adverse action. (1) The term means: (i) A refusal to grant credit in
substantially the amount or on substantially the terms requested in an
application unless the creditor makes a counteroffer that is accepted by the
applicant; (ii) A termination of an account or an unfavorable change in the
terms of an account; or (iii) A refusal to increase the amount of credit
available to an applicant.

§1002.4 General rules.
(a) Discrimination. A creditor shall not discriminate against an applicant on a
prohibited basis regarding any aspect of a credit transaction. Prohibited basis
means race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, or age
(provided the applicant has the capacity to contract); the fact that all or part
of the applicant's income derives from any public assistance program; or the
fact that the applicant has in good faith exercised any right under the Consumer
Credit Protection Act.

§1002.6 Rules concerning evaluation of applications.
(a) General rule. A creditor may consider any information obtained, so long as
the information is not used to discriminate against an applicant on a prohibited
basis. A creditor may consider the applicant's ability to repay, including the
applicant's income, obligations, employment, and credit history. The Act and
this part do not prohibit a creditor from obtaining and considering credit
history, debt-to-income ratio, or external credit-bureau scores.
(b)(2) Age, receipt of public assistance. (i) A creditor shall not take age or
public-assistance status into account in any aspect of a credit transaction,
except as permitted for an empirically derived, demonstrably and statistically
sound credit scoring system. Disparate-impact analysis applies where a facially
neutral factor disproportionately disadvantages a prohibited-basis group and is
not justified by business necessity.

§1002.9 Notifications (Adverse action).
(a) Notification of action taken. A creditor shall notify an applicant of action
taken within 30 days after receiving a completed application.
(a)(2) Each applicant against whom adverse action is taken shall be entitled to a
statement of the specific reasons for the action taken.
(b)(2) Statement of specific reasons. The statement of reasons for adverse
action must be specific and indicate the principal reason(s) for the adverse
action. Statements that the adverse action was based on the creditor's internal
standards or policies, or that the applicant failed to achieve a qualifying
score on the creditor's credit scoring system, are insufficient. The specific
reasons disclosed must relate to and accurately describe the factors actually
considered or scored by the creditor. Acceptable specific reasons include, for
example: a low credit-bureau score, a high debt-to-income ratio, insufficient
length of employment, or insufficient income for the amount of credit requested.
